Radiative Muon Capture Background Study 
===

###Introduction
This part is intended for Radiative Muon Capture (RMC) background study in Cylindrical Drift Chamber (CDC) detector for COMET Phase-I experiment.  

Muon Capture is analogy to electron capture. It is given by  
&mu;<sup>-</sup> + N(A,Z) &rarr; &nu;<sub>&mu;</sub> + N(A,Z-1)  
During this process, &gamma;s, neutrons and charged particles may be emitted and would become sources of fake signals.  
Radiative muon capture (RMC) (external process) 
&mu;<sup>-</sup> + N(A,Z) &rarr; &nu;<sub>&mu;</sub> + N(A,Z-1) + &gamma;.  
followed by asymmetric e<sup>+</sup>e<sup>-</sup> conversion of the photon or Compton Scattering is another source of intrinsic background events.

There is another process of RMC called internal process, which can be shown as:  
&mu;<sup>-</sup> + N(A,Z) &rarr; &nu;<sub>&mu;</sub> + N(A,Z-1) + e<sup>-</sup> + e<sup>+</sup>.  
The way how it contribute to sigal event is similar to external process.
In this study we will concentrate on external process and assume the contribution from internal process is the same as that of external process.

The background contribution during the whole physics run can be estimated as:  
**N<sub>bkg</sub> = N<sub>p</sub> &times; R<sub>&mu;-stop</sub> &times; R<sub>cap</sub> &times; Br<sub>RMC</sub> &times; R<sub>HE-ph</sub> &times; R<sub>HE-e</sub> &times; A<sub>geo</sub> &times; A<sub>time</sub> &times; E<sub>rec</sub> &times; R<sub>mom</sub>**

*	**N<sub>p</sub>**: Total number of initial protons.
*	**R<sub>&mu;-stop</sub>**: Number of &mu; stoped in stopping target per initial proton.
*	**R<sub>cap</sub>**: &mu; capture ratio in stopping target.
*	**Br<sub>RMC</sub>**: Branching ratio of Radiative Muon Capture relatively to Normal Radiative Muon Capture
*	**R<sub>HE-ph</sub>**: Number of high Energy RMC photons (Above 100MeV) per RMC photon.
*	**R<sub>HE-e</sub>**: Numebr of high Energy electrons (momentum above 100MeV/c) generated by one high Energy RMC photon.
*	**A<sub>geo</sub>**: Geometry acceptance of detector (i.e. CDC for COMET Phase-I).
*	**A<sub>time</sub>**: Time window cut ratio.
*	**E<sub>rec</sub>**: Reconstruction efficiency.
*	**R<sub>mom</sub>**: Momentum selection cut ratio.

Normalized to Single Signal event this number will become:
**N<sub>bkg_norm</sub> = R<sub>cap</sub>/(1-R<sub>cap</sub>) &times; (Br<sub>RMC</sub> &times; R<sub>HE-ph</sub> &times; R<sub>HE-e</sub>)/Br<sub>sig</sub> &times; A<sub>geo</sub>/A<sub>geo_sig</sub> &times; A<sub>time</sub>/A<sub>time_sig</sub> &times; E<sub>rec</sub>/E<sub>rec_sig</sub> &times; R<sub>mom</sub>/R<sub>mom_sig</sub>**  

Further study is supposed to estimate **N<sub>bkg_norm</sub>**.

###Investigation


####R<sub>cap</sub>
This can be found in papar ...  
**R<sub>cap</sub> = 0.61** for Aluminum.


####Br<sub>RMC</sub>
This can be found in papar ...  
**Br<sub>RMC</sub> = 6.7&times;10<sup>-5</sup>** for Aluminum.


####R<sub>HE-ph</sub>
In order to get this number we have to know the tail shape of RMC spectrum.  
In paper ... x (x=E/E<sub>max</sub>) in RMC follows this emperical formula ...  
E<sub>max</sub> can be estimated as: E<sub>max</sub> = m<sub>&mu;</sub> + M<sub>Z</sub> - M<sub>Z-1</sub> - m<sub>e</sub>  - E<sub>bind</sub>  
Where m<sub>&mu;</sub> is the mass of &mu;, m<sub>e</sub> is the mass of electron, M<sub>Z</sub> is the mass of initial atom (i.e. Al), M<sub>Z-1</sub> is the mass of final state atom (i.e. Mg) and E<sub>bind</sub> is the binding energy of &mu; in muonic Aluminum atom.  
According to ... Aluminum is 100% Al<sup>27</sup>, so final atom is Mg<sup>27</sup>  
According to ... M<sub>Al<sup>27</sup></sub> = 26.98153863 u, M<sub>Mg<sup>27</sup></sub> = 26.98434059 u. so M<sub>Z</sub> - M<sub>Z-1</sub> = -2.6100MeV
According to ... Binding energy of ground state electron in Aluminum atom is 1559eV. so  E<sub>bind</sub> can be estimated as 1559eV*m<sub>&mu;</sub>/m<sub>e</sub> = 0.32235MeV
So in sum, E<sub>max</sub> = 105.6584MeV - 2.6100MeV - 0.5110MeV - 0.32235MeV = 102.2150MeV  
With these informations above, I can draw the spectrom like:...  
Study of this part can be found in ``RMCSpectrum``.  
**R<sub>HE-ph</sub> = 6.613&times;10<sup>-5</sup>**. 


####R<sub>HE-e</sub> &times; A<sub>geo</sub> &times; A<sub>time</sub>
According to ... we can get the profile of beam &mu; at the entrance of CDC.  
...  
Starting from this profile, I started a Geant4 simulation of &mu; transportation in CDC region. Configuration of stopping target is  
<table>
   <tr>
      <td>Target Disk Material</td>
      <td>Aluminum</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>Target Disk Diameter</td>
      <td>200 mm</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>Target Disk Thickness</td>
      <td>200 &mu;m</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>Number of Target Disks</td>
      <td>17</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>Spacing between Disks</td>
      <td>50 mm</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>Position of Target System</td>
      <td>Center of CDC</td>
   </tr>
</table>
Magnetic Field is set to uniformly 1T among z direction.  
Geant4 version is 4.9.6 and physics model is QGSP_BERT.  
From this simulation, position and time of stopped &mu; is found to be:  
...  
According to ..., life time of RMC &mu; in Aluminium is 864ns. Applying this to the t<sub>stop</sub> distribution we can get the t<sub>capture</sub> distribution like  
...  

Furthermore, Using the stopping position and t<sub>capture</sub> as the starting point of RMC photons, assuming these photons are emitted isotopically and spectrum can be described by fig?, another Geant4 simulation of photon transportation inside CDC is applied.  
Configuration of stopping target is the same as described above.  
Configuration of Drift Chamber is:  
<table>
   <tr>
      <td>Inner Wall Material</td>
      <td>Carbon Fiber</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>Starting Radius of Inner Wall</td>
      <td>501.6 mm</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>Thickness of Inner Wall</td>
      <td>400 &mu;m</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>Outer Wall Material</td>
      <td>Aluminum</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>Starting Radius of Outer Wall</td>
      <td>806 mm</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>Thickness of Outer Wall</td>
      <td>10 mm</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>Number of Target Disks</td>
      <td>17</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>Gas</td>
      <td>He:C<sub>4</sub>H<sub>10</sub>=(90:10)</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>Length</td>
      <td>1500 mm</td>
   </tr>
</table>
Two Trigger Counters are placed at the both ends of CDC. Configuration is:  
<table>
   <tr>
      <td>Material</td>
      <td>Plastic Scintillator</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>Starting Radius</td>
      <td>471.6 mm</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>Thickness</td>
      <td>50 mm</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>Width</td>
      <td>200 mm</td>
   </tr>
</table>
Configuration of End Plates is:  
<table>
   <tr>
      <td>Material</td>
      <td>Aluminum</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>Starting Radius</td>
      <td>502 mm</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>Stopping Radius</td>
      <td>806 mm</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>Thickness</td>
      <td>20 mm</td>
   </tr>
</table>
Magnetic Field is set to uniformly 1T among z direction.  
Geant4 version is 4.9.6 and physics model is QGSP_BERT.  
Within this simulation 3&times;10<sup>8</sup> photons were generated. Consequentially 598904 high energy (momentum higher than 100 MeV/c) electrons were found.  
Generation point of these elctrons are  
<table>
   <tr>
      <td>Outer Wall</td>
      <td>313172</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>End Plate</td>
      <td>137655</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>Trigger Counter</td>
      <td>97740</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>Stopping Target</td>
      <td>38692</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>Drift Chamber</td>
      <td>2199</td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>Inner Wall</td>
      <td>9446</td>
   </tr>
</table>
Among them, electrons from Outer Wall, End Plate, Trigger Counter, and Drift Chamber can be easiy eliminated. Only electrons from  Stopping Target and Inner Wall are possible to be considered as signal. If we only care about these elctrons, then **R<sub>HE-e</sub>** can be sonsidered as **48138/3&times;10<sup>8</sup> = 1.605&times;10<sup>-4</sup>**  

Considering that to trigger the CDC detector, tracks should hit CDC first and hit trigger counter later, only 21740 electrons of them can be accepted by CDC detector. So **A<sub>geo</sub> = 21740/48138 = 45.16%**  

For these 21740 electrons, the distribution of the time when it first hit CDC (t<sub>hit</sub>) is  
...  
Among them, 21286 electrons came from Compton Scattering and 453 from pair production (gamma conversion)  

Assuming the time spread of initial proton beam is 100ns like:  
...  
We can get a smeared t<sub>hit</sub> distribution:  
...  
Applying signal time window as 700ns to 1314ns, we got only 6536 electrons left. so **A<sub>time</sub> = 6536/21740 = 30.06%**  


####E<sub>rec</sub> &times; R<sub>mom</sub>
To get these two numbers I conducted a rough study with given CDC performance estimation.  
According to ... momentum resolution of CDC detector can be shown as:  
...  
Given the signal window as 103.8 MeV to 106.0 MeV the probability of electrons with different momentum (at the first hit in CDC) can be calculated as:  
...  
Given the momentum distribution of the accepted electrons as:  
...  
We can see the probability of them to be reconstructed as a signal:  
...  
In sum, **R<sub>mom</sub> = 3.59374&times;10<sup>-6</sup>**
For preleminary study, I'll assume **E<sub>rec</sub> = E<sub>rec_sig</sub>**

###Conclusion
Total RMC background contribution normalized to one single signal event is:  
**N<sub>bkg_norm</sub> = R<sub>cap</sub>/(1-R<sub>cap</sub>) &times; (Br<sub>RMC</sub> &times; R<sub>HE-ph</sub> &times; R<sub>HE-e</sub>)/Br<sub>sig</sub> &times; A<sub>geo</sub>/A<sub>geo_sig</sub> &times; A<sub>time</sub>/A<sub>time_sig</sub> &times; E<sub>rec</sub>/E<sub>rec_sig</sub> &times; R<sub>mom</sub>/R<sub>mom_sig</sub>**  
According to ... **A<sub>geo_sig</sub> = 11%**, **A<sub>time</sub> = 39%**, **R<sub>mom_sig</sub> = 80%**  
So in summary, at **Br<sub>sig</sub> = 3&times;10<sub>-15</sub>**, **N<sub>bkg_norm</sub> = 5.1&times;10<sup>-3</sup>**  

If we further include Internal RMC background in and consider the contribution equals to this external one, then the final contribution should be doubled to **N<sub>bkg_norm</sub> = 1.1&times;10<sup>-2</sup>**
